PATCHNOTES.md, before:

# Patch Notes

## Version 1.0 - `November 24`

- Playable **console-based chess game** in 'ChessTester.java' 
- Players can take turns moving pieces using the boards square notation (e.g: to play 1. Nf3 `g1 f3`).  
- Supports all **standard pieces**: King, Queen, Rook, Bishop, Knight, Pawn.  
- **Board prints to console** after each move.  
- Captures are tracked and stored in a list, but not yet printed to the console.  
- **No special moves yet**:  
  - Castling not implemented.  
  - En-passant not implemented.  
  - Pawn promotion not implemented.  
- **Game continues indefinitely**; currently does not enforce check, checkmate, or stalemate rules.

[`Version 1.0 Sample Output`](ExampleOutputs/ExampleOutput-V1.0) 

## Version 1.1 - `November 25`
- Added **Castling**! `Move the king 2 squares towards the rook to castle.`
- **Castling rules enforced:**  
  - No pieces between the king and the chosen rook  
  - Neither the king nor the castling rook has moved yet

‼️**Limitations:**  Castling does not yet check if the king is in check, passes through a square under attack, or would end in check.
 
[`Version 1.1 Sample Output`](ExampleOutputs/ExampleOutput-V1.1)

Commit message:

Added version 1.2
Updated patch notes for version 1.2, including details on castling and check mechanics.

PATCHNOTES.md, after:

# Patch Notes

## Version 1.0 - `November 24`

- Playable **console-based chess game** in 'ChessTester.java' 
- Players can take turns moving pieces using the boards square notation (e.g: to play 1. Nf3 `g1 f3`).
- Supports all **standard pieces**: King, Queen, Rook, Bishop, Knight, Pawn.  
- **Board prints to console** after each move.  
- Captures are tracked and stored in a list, but not yet printed to the console.  
- **No special moves yet**:  
  - Castling not implemented.  
  - En-passant not implemented.  
  - Pawn promotion not implemented.  
- **Game continues indefinitely**; currently does not enforce check, checkmate, or stalemate rules.

[`Version 1.0 Sample Output`](ExampleOutputs/ExampleOutput-V1.0) 

## Version 1.1 - `November 25`
### Added **Castling**! `Move the king 2 squares towards the rook to castle.`
- **Castling rules enforced:**  
  - No pieces between the king and the chosen rook  
  - Neither the king nor the castling rook has moved yet

**Limitations:**  Castling does not yet check if the king is in check, passes through a square under attack, or would end in check.
 
[`Version 1.1 Sample Output`](ExampleOutputs/ExampleOutput-V1.1) 

## Version 1.2 - `November 26`

### **Updated Castling:** 
- is now near-rigourous, you now cannot castle while a piece is attacking the kings path. only remaining castling issue belongs to check
  
### Added **Check:**
- `Check!` will be printed to the board if your king is in check.
- Program detects if king is under attack
- **King Movement:** The king now may not move to a square which it will be in check.

**Limitations:**
- moves may reveal the king to attacking pieces.
- players may move, including castle, while in check.

[`Version 1.2 Sample Output`](ExampleOutputs/ExampleOutput-V1.2)
